#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

== How to create a custom DataProvider? ==

 Out of the box, OpenConfig comes with *four prebuilt DataProviders* which can be used for *local development*. These DataProviders are *backed by files stored* on the developers computer and allows for *real-time changes* without the need to restart the application. In the case that none of these suit you're local development needs, then a custom DataProvider can be built.

  A DataProvider must implement the interface org.openconfig.providers.DataProvider which defines the contract of a DataProvider. To make creating a custom DataProvider easier, there are a few abstract classes provided, each provides a solution to different problems.

  * AbstractDataProvider - Provides a partial implementation that handles event notifications when the underlying data changes and obtaining the value of an invocation.
  * AbstractReloadableDataProvider - Extends the AbstractDataProvider and provides a hook for reloading detecting if the DataProvider should reload the data backing it.
  * FileDataProvider - An abstract DataProvider which extends AbstractReloadableDataProvider and detects when the file backing the provider changes.
 
  When a DataProvider is created, the *initialize* is called to allow the provider to initialize anything needed by the provider. In the case of the out-of-box DataProviders, this means eagerly creating the internal Abstract Syntax Tree (The internal Object Graph). In some cases, context sensitive information maybe obtained using the OpenConfigContext object.  

  There are two lifecycle events on the DataProvider interface which will be refactored out, since they logically don't belong in the DataProvider interface. Those methods are:

  * boolean requiresReloading()
  * void reload()

  When a DataProvider is backed by a resource which may change, then the requiredReloading method must return true which will trigger a reloading of the data. *TODO: Add more on this subject*

  The hardest part about creating a DataProvider is constructing the Object Graph using the internal AST. Objects are represented using a ComplexNode, which essentially acts as a Map of AbstractNodes. *TODO* Should this be a Map of Nodes? For more information on working with the AST, consult the section *TODO Write the AST section*.

void registerEventListeners(String configurator, EventListener... eventListeners)